Now let's look into loading image data with TensorFlow.
Before, we were using TensorFlow Datasets to load our data.
However, there might be times where we already have our own datasets saved locally.
So in this notebook, we're going to learn how to load
a dataset from our local disk and use
the ImageDataGenerator class to generate batches
of images and perform real-time image augmentation.
In the previous notebooks,
we also we're working with fairly artificial image
datasets that we probably wouldn't use in real projects.
In practice, we'll likely be dealing with
full-sized color images like those we get from smartphones.
So here we're going to use the Dogs vs Cats dataset available from Kaggle.
Here's a couple examples images,
one of the dog and one of the cat.
We'll use this data set to train a neural network that can differentiate between the two.
Now these days it doesn't seem like that big of an accomplishment,
but even just a few short years ago,
it was a pretty serious challenge for computer vision systems.
So to get started, let's first download
the filtered Dogs vs Cats dataset to our local disk.
To do this, we can use a utility function with tf.keras and get_file
that's just going to take in a filename where we want to save it to,
as well as the origin,
which is the URL from where to get the dataset.
So by default, this is downloaded to a cache directory
of keras/datasets and given the file name fname.
However, if we update that to say sample.txt,
that's instead where our data's going to get saved.
Note also that this -/ refers to the current user's home folder.
Again, origin parameter is just a string containing the original URL of the file.
So here we've used this to go ahead and download our dataset.
We also use extract equals true to extract the file as a zip archive.
So this dataset we just downloaded it has the following directory structure.
Notice that it's already split out between training and validation sets,
as well as between cat and dog images.
So we don't have to do any further splitting just related to training versus validation.
In this cell, I've just used the OS library.
They can get our different directory names to set up the directories
for our different training sets and validation sets so that we can use them later on.
Now, it's always important to explore the dataset before we get into training.
So again, we're just using a pretty small subset of this data.
So you'll see that there's 2,000 training images,
1,000 validation images and that is split evenly between our cat and dog images.
That's also always an important thing to consider is whether a dataset is balanced,
and in this case, we have equal amount of images between the two classes.
Let's go ahead and put an image from
our dataset so that you can actually see what it looks like.
However, in order to plot these images,
we want to create a pipeline first.
So to set this up,
we're going to use our ImageDataGenerator class I mentioned earlier.
This will help us be able to apply various transformations to our images,
such as rotations, horizontal and vertical flips etc,
that can better generalize the model on this data.
So even though we have only 1,000 images of each class,
we can end up having a lot more in practice by using these different transformations.
We'll get a little bit more into these transformations later on.
Once we have our generator here,
we want to use the flow from
directory function to load our images into a given directory.
Note that this function can take various parameters such as the batch size,
whether to shuffle our images are not,
as well as the desired shape of our images.
Now it's important to note that by default,
this directory will use a batch size of 32 and resize all images to 256 by 256.
In our case actually,
we're going to use a batch size of 64 as well as an image shape of 224.
This is because the network that we're going to use,
that's a pre-trained network,
takes an input of 224 by 224 images.
We'll also do some of the techniques we use before
such as rescaling our images to be between zero and one.
Again, we'll feed in our batch size down here,
our target size, and we'll make sure that our data, it get shuffled.
This last piece on the class mode that set the binary is because we have two classes,
a dog and a cat,
and so we only need to have a zero or a one based on whether it's a dog or a cat class,
and we don't have to use
a wider class mode such as we used before when we had 10 classes.
So here's an example image. This just has a cat.
Again, we have 2,000 images belonging to two classes.
Next, we'll come back and start looking into our different data augmentation strategies.